Icons: Accessibility paragraph (#694)
joomla/Manual: docs/general-concepts/icons.md

Attention: This could affect subsequent button icons whose CSS formatting is then redefined.
:::

## Icons and accessibility

> Spport accessibility depending on the situation. Imagine the user is blind or sees symbols only in a blur. Yet, they still want to know what it is about.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Support accessibility depending on the situation. Imagine the user is blind or sees symbols only in a blur. Yet, they still want to know what it is about.
```

We have two situations:
1) The icon stands alone without further text

> 2) The icon has a explaning name on the side 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2) The icon has an explanatory name beside it
```

Blind or visually impaired persons must get the whole information, every icon needs a textual representation. This can be a plain text, a title, a tooltip or also a text which is hidden from sighted users.

> If there is the icon-envelope, followed by the text "email me" then you can hide the icon with aria-hidden= true, the screenreader reads the text - good. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if there is an icon-envelope, followed by the text "email me" then you can hide the icon with aria-hidden="true", and then the screenreader just reads the text - this is good practice. 

```

It there is only an icon-envelope but no text - then a blind user sees nothing and the screenreader probably reads nothing.

> Then you must add an alt-text to the icon like alt-text="contact me per e-mail"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then you must add an alt text to the icon like alt="contact me by e-mail"
```

> or aria-hidden = "true" to the icon and add an invisible text "contact me per e-mail".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or aria-hidden = "true" to the icon and add an invisible text "contact me by e-mail".
```

> ### Handling isolated symbols without further support

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Handling isolated symbols without further text

In this case you should add alt text or text which is visually hidden from sighted users.

```

```php
<i class="fa fa-envelope" alt="<?php echo Text::_('CONTACT_ME_PER_EMAIL') ?>"></i> 

> <i class="fa fa-envelope" aria-hidden="true" ></i><span hidden><?php echo Text::_('CONTACT_ME_PER_EMAIL') ?></span> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<i class="fa fa-envelope" aria-hidden="true" ></i><span visually-hidden><?php echo Text::_('CONTACT_ME_PER_EMAIL') ?></span> 
```

Author: I do not know about visually-hidden and did not find a reference in MDN. So if you know that it matches for me it is usable then

Reviewer: It's not a standard HTML class. 
I believe it has come from bootstrap, and is now incorporated within Joomla. 

Feel free to add that as an explanation if you think it would be useful. 

Otherwise, this looks ready to be duplicated to the other versions, prior to merging.

Author: i did change it. Please check again

Author: > Otherwise, this looks ready to be duplicated to the other versions, prior to merging.
Which version would you recommend 5.4 6.x ?

Author: Please copy the file to 6.2 version after accepting the PR.

```

### Handling icons with associated text

> If there is the icon-envelope, followed by the text "email me" then you can hide the icon with aria-hidden= true, the screenreader reads the text - good.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If there is the icon-envelope, followed by the text "email me" then you can hide the icon with aria-hidden="true", and then the screenreader just reads the text - good.
```

```php
<i class="fa fa-envelope" aria-hidden="true"></i><span><?php echo Text::_('CONTACT_ME_PER_EMAIL') ?></span> 
```

### Using 'alt-text' versus 'invisible text' 

> There are different discussions what is better - alt-text of invisible text. Both variants are a11y.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are different opinions about which is better - alt-text or invisible text. Both variants are a11y.  
```

In **Joomla CMS** we use the variant with **invisible** text.

### **Real Joomla! examples**

![Joomla Menu view](./_assets/j_real_icon-example.png "Joomla Menu view with three notes of icon use")

**Icon with text only**
```php
<span class="menu-dashboard">
    <a href="/Joomla5x/administrator/index.php?option=com_cpanel&amp;view=cpanel&amp;dashboard=components" title="Components Dashboard">
        <span>
            <img loading="eager" decoding="async" aria-hidden="true" class="atum-dashboard" height="18" src="/Joomla5x/media/templates/administrator/atum/images/icons/dashboard.svg" alt="">
        </span>
        <span class="visually-hidden">Components Dashboard</span>
        </a>
    </span>
```

> Attention: Used title above will create a tooltip 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Attention: The use of the title attribute in the link above will create a tooltip 
```
